---
layout: post
title: Gitty (Part I)
---

I've been trying to get into Android developement for quite some time now but so far all attempts have resulted in a failure. The past failures have involved:

### **Attempt 0**: Read the Android API/SDK. 
I thought I was brave and decided to just plainly read the docs without knowing how they work.

#### What went wrong?
**TL;DR/W**: Don't do it. It's just bad.

### **Attempt I**: [Udacity] (https://www.udacity.com/course/ud853)
Learning Android from a course was my primary attempt. I decided to go with the approach as it was the most widly agreed way of learning Android from scratch (try to Google "how to learn Android dev") and you'll see what I mean.

#### What went wrong?

**Everything**. The course started off very well by explaining the overall high level view of Android and how apps are made. It also focussed on good practices that must be followed while building apps. But gradually I realized the concepts that the course tries to teach are just grinding the wheel over and over again to achieve products that are currently freely available.

This course based approach is a good way to learn the system as a whole but it certainly didn't meet the objectives that I was looking for. Here's the [code repo] (https://github.com/simar7/Sunshine) in case you are interested. Be warned the git log tells the entire story.

### **Attempt II**: [Gitty] (https://github.com/engineeringX/gitty) + StackOverflow  
The third time around I decided to dive heads deep into code right away and avoiding any tutorials as much as I can. So far this approach has worked to an extent and I like it a lot.

To give you an idea (I'm still working on creating mockups), Gitty is an app that let's you compete with your friends with code. The idea is simple, the more you write code and the faster you commit (#fuckitshipit) the better your overall score gets. I also plan to integrate this credit based approach with Google Play Game Services that can further boost the rewardibility and make competing against friends more interesting.

#### What went wrong?

So far the only issues I've faced get resolved either quirky bugs in Android Studio or me not knowing about a certain aspect of the Android Framework. Both of these issues are part of the learning curve, and although frustrating at times, they end up teaching me a lot more than by **not failing** and plainly watching videos.

### Takeaway (TL;DRAA)
Write code, it's the best approach.
