---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Rust (Part 1) 
---

Rust is a new language being developed at [Mozilla Research Labs] (https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/research/projects/). In this post I'll cover some background as to why the new language is being developed. The post will only cover a high level overview without going into the specifics.

### Objective
Rust is being developed as a systems programming language. The language is built on the principles of elimination data races, avoiding memory leaks and at the same time still being fast enough.

### Why Rust?
Most current languages only are able to give you one out of the two characteristics:

* Control
* Safety

Languages like C/C++ give you a lot of control over the code you write. You are able to optimize the code the way you want, for the hardware that you want for. Many language and hardware specifics are possible in these languages but they come at a cost; less safety.

Rust on the other hand promises both. This is done by the implementation of the following ideas:

* Ownership
Rust defines ownership of an object in a way that there is memory safety still ensured without a garbage collector having to take care of such tasks.

* Borrowing
Rust has the concept of borrowing. At the time of writing this post I'm not fully aware of the lower level implementation but on a higher level the idea is that to enable resource sharing between threads, Rust has the idea of letting other threads **borrow** resources from a owner thread and return back when done. In this way the *arc* or the automatically reference counting will ensure that at the end there is a balance between the alloc/dealloc's and the net count is zero.

* Unsafe code
Although not encouraged, rust still has the option for developers to write unsafe code from other languages like C/C++ within rust.


